=== REVIEW METADATA ===
Title: Apple iPhone 17 Pro Max review: a new design and powerful ... - TechRadar
Source: Techradar
URL: https://www.techradar.com/phones/iphone/apple-iphone-17-pro-max-review
Extracted: 2025-12-01T06:17:45.412Z
Archive: https://web.archive.org/web/20250922035034/https://www.techradar.com/phones/iphone/apple-iphone-17-pro-max-review
Type: techradar_review
=========================

Apple iPhone 17 Pro Max: Two-minute reviewIf you're looking different in your iPhone shopping journey, the iPhone 17 Pro Max (and smaller iPhone 17 Pro) has you covered. It's not just that fetching Cosmic Orange, the unexpected hue hit of Apple's 'Awe Dropping' event; Apple's iPhone 17 Pro Max features a fresh design with new materials, and a broad and bold product-spanning camera plateau that adds a distinctive flair to what had become a somewhat tired design.Inside, the changes are no less significant, from the powerful A19 Pro chip to the new vapor-chamber supported heat-management system, which enable enough performance to support every peak and valley of your experience.

(Image credit: Lance Ulanoff / Future)If you're fixated on cameras (as I am), the iPhone 17 Pro Max (and 17 Pro) will not disappoint. There are now finally three 48MP lenses that support a wide range of shooting styles. Perhaps the most notable of the three is the new 48MP 4x optical zoom lens that also offers access to a sensor-crop 8x zoom, which, thanks to selecting the. center pixels from the large sensor and an upgraded image pipeline, delivers some truly eye-popping photos.This is also an upgrade that makes a canny swap of titanium for aluminum, a seeming downgrade but one with some significant benefits, like the ability to apply that amazing new anodized orange finish and the ability to better distribute and dissipate heat.Finally, there's the price – it's the one thing you hope doesn't get an upgrade, and I'm happy to report that Apple somehow held the line here, and the iPhone 17 Pro Max still starts at $1,199 / £1,199 / AU$2,149. It's never been a cheap smartphone, but then this one is for the Pros, and I think they will be very happy. I know I am.As for why you might buy the iPhone 17 Pro Max over the iPhone 17 Pro, that comes down to screen size, battery life potential, and the option to get up to 2TB of storage; otherwise, these iPhones are identical.Apple iPhone 17 Pro Max review: Price and availabilityStarts at $1,199 / £1,199 / AU$2,149Pre-orders opened on September 12, shipping from September 19The iPhone 17 Pro Max was announced at Apple's 'Awe Dropping' event on September 9. Pre-orders began on September 12, and the phone arrives in stores and starts shipping on September 19.Get daily insight, inspiration and deals in your inboxSign up for breaking news, reviews, opinion, top tech deals, and more.Contact me with news and offers from other Future brandsReceive email from us on behalf of our trusted partners or sponsorsThe iPhone 17 Pro starts at $1,199/ £1,199 / AU$2,149 for the model with 256GB of storage, with that price rising to $1,399 / £1,399 / AU$2,599 for 512GB of storage, $1,599 / £1,599 / AU$2,999 for 1TB of storage, and $1,999 / £1,999 / AU$3,799 for 2TB of storage. The latter configuration represents the largest storage capacity of any iPhone ever.

(Image credit: Lance Ulanoff / Future)Apple is likely getting undue credit for not raising the price of the base model iPhone 17 Pro Max (I'm happy they didn't, but it's not like they lowered the price). Component prices and supply-chain issues relating to the geopolitical stage are surely putting pressure on the company (and it's under continual pressure from the US to start building the iPhone in the country). Somehow, though, Apple has held the line, and the base iPhone 17 Pro Max (and 17 Pro) still starts at $1,199 / £1,199 / AU$2,149 for the 256GB model.The only difference in pricing comes into play when you stretch to the phone's new upper tier of 2TB, which is only available with the Pro Max model. That sends the price up to almost $2,000. It boggles the mind that we now consider paying almost two grand for a pocket-sized device to be rational. On the other hand, this is a true pro-level smartphone that, based on my tests, is probably ready for pro photography and videography tasks – and when you put it like that, it might seem like a bargain.Swipe to scroll horizontallyStorageUS priceUK priceAU price256GB$1,199£1,199AU$2,149512GB$1,399£1,399AU$2,5991TB$1,599£1,599AU$2,9992TB$1,999£1,999AU$3,799Value score: 4 / 5Apple iPhone 17 Pro Max review: SpecsSwipe to scroll horizontallyHeader Cell - Column 0 iPhone 17iPhone 17 AiriPhone 17 ProiPhone 17 Pro MaxWeight: 177g165g206g233gDisplay:6.3-inch OLED6.5-inch OLED6.3-inch OLED6.9-inch OLEDResolution:2622 x 12062736 x 12602622 x 12062868 x 1320Refresh rate:120Hz120Hz120Hz120HzPeak brightness:3,000 nits3,000 nits3,000 nits3,000 nitsChipset:A19A19 ProA19 ProA19 ProRear cameras:48MP wide (26mm, f/1.6), 48MP ultra-wide (13mm, f/2.2)48MP wide (26mm, f/1.6)48MP wide (24mm, f/1.78), 48MP ultra-wide (13mm, f/2.2), 48MP telephoto (8x optical zoom)48MP wide (24mm, f/1.78), 48MP ultra-wide (13mm, f/2.2), 48MP telephoto (8x optical zoom)Front camera:18MP (f/1.9)18MP (ƒ/1.9)18MP (f/1.9)18MP (f/1.9)Storage:256GB, 512GB256GB, 512GB, 1TB256GB, 512GB, 1TB256GB, 512GB, 1TB, 2TBColors:Black, White, Mist Blue, Sage, LavenderSpace Black, Cloud White, Light Gold, Sky BlueSilver, Cosmic Orange, Deep BlueSilver, Cosmic Orange, Deep BlueApple iPhone 17 Pro Max review: DesignA fresh, possibly divisive lookNew materials pay dividends in colors and performanceStill familiar in most of the best waysI saw enough leaks in the run-up to the iPhone 17 line launch to have a pretty good idea of what was coming; and, to be honest, I was preparing to hate the iPhone 17 Pro Max redesign and colors. Yet, here I am now, quite pleased with the giant plateau (it's too big to call it a 'bump') and, yes, loving Cosmic Orange.In many ways, the iPhone 17 Pro Max is still undoubtedly part of the long lineage of iPhones before it. There are, though, just enough new touches here to add up to what I am comfortable calling a redesign.Starting with the back, there's the now nearly full-width plateau that's both a bold design touch but also a practical measure, in that underneath there's now more space for upgraded components like the refreshed tetraprism (think 'periscope') that supports a new, longer telephoto lens.Most (but not all) previous iPhone backs featured just one material, usually metal or glass. The iPhone 17 Pro Max is a spiffy mix of the two: metal and glass, or rather a large rectangular Ceramic Shield cutout, with the rest a unibody chassis literally carved out of aluminum.

(Image credit: Lance Ulanoff / Future)Instead of a titanium band surrounding a frame, components, and the front and back glass, the iPhone 17 Pro Max's back cascades seamlessly to the sides, and even curves just a bit around the front to meet the Ceramic Shield 2 screen covers, which reportedly will better protect it from scratches (we'll see). It all has an incredibly unified feel, and because Apple has radically cut down on edges, the phone feel very comfortable to hold.When it comes to dimensions and weight, the iPhone 17 Pro Max is slightly larger and heavier that the 16 Pro Max, but I challenge anyone to notice the differences, which can be measured in fractions. The iPhone 17 Pro Max is 163mm tall by 78mm long by 8.75mm thick, and weighs 233 grams. By contrast, the 16 Pro Max was 163 x 77.6 x 8.25mm and weighed 227g.This year there are no new buttons to contend with. Along one edge we have the long power and Siri button, and below it, Camera Control. Opposite them is the Action Button, and below that a pair of volume buttons.Image 1 of 5(Image credit: Lance Ulanoff / Future)(Image credit: Lance Ulanoff / Future)(Image credit: Lance Ulanoff / Future)(Image credit: Lance Ulanoff / Future)(Image credit: Lance Ulanoff / Future)There are small differences along the shorter edges. On top, an antenna cutout is now visible, and on the bottom, the pair of speaker grilles appear larger (yes, this phone can provide very loud and clear sound).If you want to lie the phone flat, you'll have to place it screen-down. Even though the back plateau is nearly the full width of the phone, the tri-camera array still bumps out even further, and between this and the wide metal bump, this phone lies on its back at a slightly more extreme angle than the iPhone 16 Pro Max.

(Image credit: Lance Ulanoff / Future)The switch from titanium to aluminum provides not only some useful heat-management and energy efficiency benefits, it's also opened the door for anodized color options (the material and design upgrades did not impact the IP68 rating, and, yes, I ran the phone under water to no ill effect).I don't know where Apple got the idea for Cosmic Orange, but I actually love it. It's bold without being garish. There's also Silver (a blah throwback) and the very deep and inky Deep Blue. Apple sort of explained its color choices to me, and even the loss of black, but I think this is just Apple mixing things up and, possibly, giving a nod to all the pro-level folks who buy this phone for creative pursuits. Orange is a color that will get you noticed.Design score: 5 / 5Apple iPhone 17 Pro Max review: DisplayExcellent Super Retina XDR display It's brighter than everA new anit-reflective coatingiOS 26's Liquid Glass interface might lead you to assume there's been some radical display overhaul; so much glow, shiny, and artificial transparency. However, that would be mostly wrong. The platform update does change the look, but it's all still working with the same materials.The iPhone 17 Pro Max's expansive 6.9-inch Super Retina XDR OLED is largely the same as last year's, featuring a resolution of 2868 x 1320 pixels for a density of 460ppi. The ProMotion technology still automatically ranges from 1Hz to 120Hz, and it's 'always-on', which means that even when you're in bed you can make out the time and have glanceable notifications.It's not, though, exactly the same screen. This display now ranges up to 3,000 nits – that's 1,000 more than the last model. In my side-by-side tests, the iPhone 17 Pro Max is more visible in direct sunlight. This effect is assisted by a new reflective coating, meaning the light bouncing off the screen is also less noticeable. These are nice, and not necessarily insignificant, upgrades.

(Image credit: Lance Ulanoff / Future)With a narrow bezel (no change from last year), the Super Retina display comes preciously close to meeting that orange metal, with a vast expanse of color and entertainment interrupted only by the pill-shaped Dynamic Island.Made up of the new Center Stage Camera and Face ID sensors, it remains a useful space for live information, but it's also sometimes a black blob cutout in games, videos, and photos. I find the information it provides useful, so I do not mind it much, but I was also hoping for a redesign that might have shrunk the thing by 50%. This is a minor quibble, and I'm sure that, like me, you probably won't notice or be bothered by it very much (and that, also like me, you'll appreciate the info updates).

These photos do not do the brightness capabilities justice, but the max 3000 nit iPhone 17 Pro Max is on the left, and the iPhone 16 Pro Max (2000 nits) is on the right. (Image credit: Lance Ulanoff / Future)Otherwise, photos, videos, games, websites, productivity tools, and whatever you view on the display look fantastic. It's a butter-smooth screen when it needs to be, and thanks to the wide color and 2,000,000:1 contrast ratio, images pop and blacks are as inky and dark as you would hope they'd be.Display score: 4.5 / 5Apple iPhone 17 Pro Max review: CamerasApple's best camera array everPhotos and videos are impressiveCenter Stage camera changes selfies foreverThis is the telephoto you've been waiting forRedesigned camera app will confuse and frustrate some

(Image credit: Lance Ulanoff / Future)Apple's redesigned Plateau is not just an aesthetic choice; it's a practical one. Underneath that now larger, raised platform is a lot of technology, including a new tetraprism to support Apple's longest and highest resolution telephoto lens ever. It's simply one highlight of a stellar iPhone 17 Pro Max camera system.There are a total of four cameras, with Apple calling the rear trio 'Fusion Cameras':Main: 48MP f/1.78Ultra-wide: 48MP f/2.2Telephoto: 48MP (4x optical) f/2.8Selfie camera: 18MPThose specs only tell half the story. In general, you're not shooting at the full-frame 48MP resolution, or rather, you might be using all 48 million pixels to produce a high-quality 24MP (the default for the main camera) or even 12MP to produce an 8x optical-quality sensor crop (on the telephoto camera). The ultra-wide will, by default, shoot 12MP macro photos.In virtually every instance, this is a case where less is more (or fewer pixels add up to more). Apple uses all that pixel information and its remarkable image pipeline to deliver fantastic photos with true-life colors and exquisite detail.Image 1 of 2A telephoto shot(Image credit: Lance Ulanoff / Future)A main camera shot(Image credit: Lance Ulanoff / Future)I spent an inordinate amount of time shooting with the 4x and 8x zoom lenses, capturing still lifes and long-distance shots. I think the flower photos I captured from a few feet away are just as impressive as the New York City skyline pictures I snapped through the window from an airplane aisle seat. Those latter are notable not only for the detail but for the speed of the lens, which somehow managed to not blur the entire shot.

Shot at 8x zoom through the window from an aisle seat (Image credit: Lance Ulanoff / Future)Since 8x is equivalent, according to Apple, to a 200mm lens, the camera app helps you with a small viewfinder on top of the main one to see where in the 4x frame you're looking; it's a helpful feature for keeping the context of the frame. By the way, the optical image stabilization does a good job of holding the telephoto frame steady.Image 1 of 2(Image credit: Lance Ulanoff / Future)(Image credit: Lance Ulanoff / Future)Night photography is better than ever. When I wanted to capture an image of the Twin Tower lights that NYC lights once a year on 9-11, I needed the iPhone 17 Pro Max's 8x optical quality zoom and, naturally, the image pipeline behind it to get the shot. The iPhone 16 Pro Max, which maxes out at 5x optical zoom but with just 12MP, just couldn't manage it.There's also been a generational leap in portrait-mode photography, where I noticed visible improvements in some of the most challenging aspects of a portrait shot, like flyaway whips of hair and glasses frames. These are photos worthy of display.Image 1 of 3My niece, her husband and all their dogs. Look at how it captured all of them(Image credit: Lance Ulanoff / Future)Does anything look better than dogs in portrait mode?(Image credit: Lance Ulanoff / Future)My dad. Note the excellent work on the hair and glasses.(Image credit: Lance Ulanoff / Future)The selfie or TrueDepth camera is now the 18MP Center Stage Camera, and brings what might be the biggest overhaul to selfie photography since, well, the introduction of selfie cameras.

(Image credit: Lance Ulanoff / Future)When I set up to take a group shot with my son and father, the iPhone 17 Pro Max automatically widened the frame. Normally, I would try to awkwardly hold the phone in landscape mode, but now there's a software button I select, which instantly rotates the frame 90 degrees into landscape mode. Yes, it's a game-changer.Image 1 of 2If you take a portrait-mode photo and want to switch the focus, it only takes a tap(Image credit: Lance Ulanoff / Future)(Image credit: Lance Ulanoff / Future)If you don't know who's in focus on your portrait-mode shot, you can easily tap to bring someone or something else into focus. Plus, any photo can now be turned into a spatial scene, which turns the image into a stereoscopic wonder. I tried this with some selfie images in which someone was visibly seated behind me, and the results were very good.Apple still doesn't support 8K video, but I also don't think anyone should care, since most of us are not watching 8K content (although perhaps it matters to some pros who want the editing possibilities offered by a much larger frame).In any case, the iPhone 17 Pro Max's video capture capabilities remain excellent, with the ability to capture 4K at up to 120fps.Image 1 of 10(Image credit: Lance Ulanoff / Future)(Image credit: Lance Ulanoff / Future)(Image credit: Lance Ulanoff / Future)(Image credit: Lance Ulanoff / Future)(Image credit: Lance Ulanoff / Future)(Image credit: Lance Ulanoff / Future)(Image credit: Lance Ulanoff / Future)(Image credit: Lance Ulanoff / Future)(Image credit: Lance Ulanoff / Future)(Image credit: Lance Ulanoff / Future)The Center Stage Camera uses its larger and now square sensor to keep selfie video steady, even if you're moving around. I ran around to give it a challenge, and the phone still managed to smooth out most of the bumps.One of the quirkiest new features is Dual Capture. As the name suggests, this slightly hidden feature lets you use the front and back cameras simultaneously. The rear camera provides the main action, and you appear as a live picture-in-picture window that you can drag anywhere on the screen during filming. It's fun, even if the utility is not immediately obvious. I actually had some fun using it at a wedding, but I do wish that I could edit the two streams separately post-filming.

(Image credit: Lance Ulanoff / Future)I'm not a pro videographer, but I was curious to try out the new Genlock feature, which is supposed to keep multiple video streams synchronized. I was able to connect an iPhone 17 Pro and the 17 Pro Max, both running a new version of Final Cut Camera, to an iPad Pro running the iPadOS 26 public beta and Final Cut Pro. The iPad app let me tap one button to simultaneously launch recording in both phones, and the resulting combined stream ended up on the iPad.After my first try resulted in two videos that were not in perfect sync, I gave it a second shot, and made sure to check that both phones were recording audio. This worked, and now I could edit each stream while not losing the synchronization to make a pretty cool multi-cam video.

(Image credit: Lance Ulanoff / Future)The Camera app, by the way, is among the many redesigns you'll find in iOS 26, and I'm not sure I love it. It hides some of the camera options like Pano and Portrait, though you only have to touch the Photo button and slide it to find them again. The options button is now a tiny grid icon in the upper right-hand side that's easy to miss. We'll all learn these new controls, but we may grumble about them for a little while.That aside, this is undoubtedly Apple's best camera array yet, offering unprecedented versatility for the iPhone line and producing stellar image quality across a range of styles.Image 1 of 4Horses shot with the telephoto(Image credit: Lance Ulanoff / Future)Horses with telephoto(Image credit: Lance Ulanoff / Future)Horses with telephoto(Image credit: Lance Ulanoff / Future)Telephoto(Image credit: Lance Ulanoff / Future)Camera score: 5 / 5Apple iPhone 17 Pro Max review: Software and Apple IntelligenceiOS 26 is so glassyApple Intelligence has some minor updatesNet positive updates across the boardFew things contribute to the new look and feel of the iPhone 17 lineup as much as iOS 26. Liquid glass adds a translucent sheen to almost every aspect of the platform, and mostly it's gorgeous. Apple has done an excellent job of programming pixels to look like glass.Sometimes, though, the transparency is overdone, and I struggled to make out some interface elements. Think of it this way: when you can see through one element to view another, it can occasionally increase the overall clutter and make some things visually confusing. For example, when you swipe down on the screen to access global search, the search box still faintly shows what's behind it, which makes what's on top of it – what you're typing – a little harder to read. It's a small issue that Apple could easily address in the next iOS update.In some cases, though, like the new first-party app icons, Control Center, and dock, iOS 26 is a welcome update that gives everything a little polish without throwing out the most recognizable elements.Apple Intelligence gets a few updates, like Live Translation and the ability for images captured through Visual Intelligence to be transformed into calendar entries. I played a bit with Genmoji and Image Playground to experience those upgrades, but they're mostly minor, and I still await the fully-featured Siri that Apple has promised.Software score: 4.5 / 5Apple iPhone 17 Pro Max review: PerformanceA19 Pro raises the bar, again12GB leaves headroom for future Apple Intelligence performance improvementsThe new heat management system is a winnerThe iPhone 17 Pro and iPhone 17 Pro Max might represent the most radical redesign of the iPhone in terms of internal components we've seen in quite some time.In a way, Apple's external changes (replacing titanium with aluminum) are directly connected to those updates.Let's start, though, with the A19 Pro chip, which is now supported by 12GB of RAM. It's a formidable combo, and in our benchmarks it raised the bar for single and multi-core Geekbench scores while also boosting things like frame rates in games.The A19 features a 6-core CPU and GPUs. On the GPU side, each core features its own Neural accelerator.Image 1 of 3(Image credit: Lance Ulanoff / Future)(Image credit: Lance Ulanoff / Future)(Image credit: Lance Ulanoff / Future)It's a system that ably handles 4K video editing and AAA game play with equal aplomb. In games like Destiny Rising, reflections and atmospherics, like fog and smoke, match what you might see on a console.What's more remarkable, though, is that as you do all this, the phone remains relatively cool, and even if it gets a bit warmer in general, there's no one identifiable hot spot. That's down to the new heat management system, which includes a long and narrow vapor chamber that sits on top of the A19 Pro, which is placed near the center of the iPhone 17 Pro Max's body. As the A19 Pro heats up, the water inside the vapor chamber absorbs the heat, vaporizing the water, which then condenses on the other end of the chamber. The process repeats continuously to manage and transfer the heat out across the chassis and to the more heat-efficient aluminum frame.It's that kind of heat management that helps the phone maintain a high level of performance and, in my estimation, positively impacts battery life.Performance score: 5 / 5Apple iPhone 17 Pro Max review: BatteryBetter battery life than everQi 2 supportSpend for the faster adapterApple combines that power and efficiency with a larger battery to provide, potentially, multi-day battery life.Now, in my experience, I went over 30 hours (it's rated for 39 hours) before I needed to charge the phone. However, I think it's too early to make a final assessment on battery life. I know my phone is busy copying 30,000 emails, updating photo libraries, and more background tasks relating to initial setup.In truth, I don't think I'll fully understand typical battery life for another month. In the meantime, I can tell you that battery life appears good, if not better, than the last generation, and your mileage may vary.Expect Q2 wireless charging, which, if you have a Qi2 charger, will be faster. The wired charging is faster, too, but remember you'll need to buy your own higher-wattage wall charger (a $39 40W-to-60W adaptive charger) to achieve those charge speeds. In my experience, I was able to charge the phone to 50% in just 20 minutes. Too bad this adapter (and not just the USB-C charge cable) isn't included in the package.In the communication space, this is, in the US, an eSIM-only phone that supports dual-SIMs and makes transferring phone numbers across devices a snap. There's more good news, like WiFi 7 support, Bluetooth 6, and Emergency Satellite communication, which, at the time of this writing, is still free.Battery score: 4.5 / 5Should you buy the Apple iPhone 17 Pro Max?Swipe to scroll horizontallyApple iPhone 17 Pro Max score cardAttributesNotesRatingValueMore power, fresh design and better camera while holding the line on price.4 / 5DesignNew look, materials, and color while still undeniably iPhone.5 / 5DisplayApple holds the line on its display technology but enhances it just enough with a brighter and more resilient screen.4.5 / 5SoftwareiOS 26 brings Liquid Glass to virtually every corner of the iPhone with mostly positive results. We could do with some less translucency in a few spots. Apple Intelligence improves but we await the full-boat Siri experience.4.5 / 5CameraThree fantastic cameras produce eye-popping images across a range of shooting styles. Happiness is the new 4x/8x zoom lens.5 / 5PerformanceApple's A19 Pro chip is fast and effective in every scenario. It may be especially adept at local AI operations. The new heat management system helps keep the system relatively cool to the touch.5 / 5BatteryAnecdotal battery tests provided 30-hours plus of battery but lab tests are lower. 4.5 / 5Buy it if...You want the best iPhoneThere's no question that this is the best iPhone Apple has ever produced and while the iPhone 17 Pro is essentially the same phone, this is the one that offers the biggest screen and best battery life.You want pro-level photographyApple may not always beat competitors on the pure megapixel front but this phone produces some of the bets photos I have ever seen from a smartphone. Don't buy it if...You were looking for a more affordable iPhoneThe iPhone 17 Pro Max is no more expensive than its predecessor but that doesn't make it cheap. If you want the same performance for less, check out the iPhone 17 Pro Max.You want the ultimate in AIApple Intelligence is a decent start in the AI space, but it pales in comparison to Google Gemini (found on Pixel phones) and GalaxyAI (and Gemini) on Samsung Galaxy AI.Apple iPhone 17 Pro Max review: Also considerApple's latest flagship iPhone not exciting you? Here are three alternatives from the Android frontier.Google Pixel 10 ProThe Pixel 10 Pro is a fantastic addition to the Pixel line, with useful new features like magnetic charging and AI tools that are helpful and not overbearing. There is still room for improvement, particularly in terms of performance and battery life, but this is one of the best smartphones you can buy, aside from the Pixel 10 Pro XL.Samsung Galaxy Z Fold 7For powerful versatility a surprisingly thin and light frame, nothing beats the Samsung Galaxy Z Fold 7. It has excellent cameras, two screens, and powerful AI features. It's also considerably more expensive that the iPhone 17 Pro Max. Samsung Galaxy S25 UltraSamsung's ultimate Android phone is a welcome mixure of design and power that, yes, still brings the titanium. Ther'es also that 200MP sensor, something the iPhone 17 Pro Max still doesn't boast.How I tested the Apple iPhone 17 Pro MaxReview test period: I received the phone on September 9 and tested it through September 16.Testing included: everyday use, photography, video calling, gaming, streaming video, music playback, and testing Apple IntelligenceTools used: Geekbench 6, Geekbench AI, 3DMark I tested the iPhone 17 Pro Max (and iPhone 17 Pro) alongside my iPhone 16 Pro Max. I took it with me everywhere and tried to use it as I would my own phone.I've been testing smartphones for over 20 years, and I've been writing about the iPhone since it launched. I've also been tracking and writing about AI since the dawn of consumer-grade experiences more than a decade ago, and I've been covering technology for 39 years.Read more about how we testFirst reviewed September 2025